{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13780\viewh10980\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs30 \cf0 LINE 9: ...of the Earth's pole-to-equator\'85\

\i OK\

\i0 \
LINE 30: I would say "long baroclinic Rossby wave phase speed", not "longwave\'85 wave phase speed". \'a0Also at line 57 and other places.\

\i OK\

\i0 \
LINE 34: could cite Wortham and Wunsch (2014) or any of the papers in the first paragraph of the intro.\

\i In fact, that was what I had here; I just hadn\'92t filled in the bibtex yet. What other papers though?\

\i0 \
LINE 32-36: I like this motivation for the paper.\

\i Good!
\i0 \
\
LINE 58: cite Chelton et al. 2007 and/or 2011. \'a0"nonlinear eddies" propagate at about the long wave phase speed, but larger (apparently linear) Rossby waves propagate somewhat faster.\

\i Ok, I included this point, which is superficially very confusing. The long waves don\'92t propagate at the long wave speed!
\i0 \
\
LINE 74: explain why eastern Pacific has "intrinsic importance" for climate. \'a0I think most people would name the tropics, poles, ACC, etc. with eastern Pacific well down the list.\

\i ENSO! Tropical pacific is the source of all seasonal predictability in the climate system.
\i0 \
\
LINE 77: do you mean longitude instead of latitude?\

\i YES!\

\i0 \
LINE 83 and below: SSALTO/DUACS, AVISO, CNES are all acronyms (though not always on the AVISO website!). \'a0\

\i OK
\i0 \
\
LINE 85: mention that you're using the 2-satellite "reference" MSLA, rather than the all-satellite "updated". \'a0Also mention that AVISO SSH is anomaly relative to 1993--1999 time mean.\

\i OK\

\i0 \
LINE 90: nothing to do with the paper\'85 but it's odd that AVISO seems to be jumping back and forth between offering 1/4deg cartesian grid and 1/3deg Mercator gridded products. \'a0Used to be both, then just 1/3deg, now just 1/4deg.\

\i Yes, I am curious to try the new product. I think I will do this while the paper is in review and see if it makes a difference.
\i0 \
\
LINE 90-97: I assume the 50km roughly comes out of the discussion in Chelton et al. (2011) appendix A.3. \'a0I think 50km is reasonable for a single number, but you should add that "features smaller than about 2degx2deg are significantly attenuated by the AVISO processing." \'a0You mention that the "SSH signal displays very little power at such short wavelengths", but this is due, in part, to the artificial very steep spectral rolloff imposed by the AVISO processing. \'a0I say in part because the SSH spectrum is red in this range anyway, but with a spectral slope around -4 not -10. \'a0Saying that the filtering of small scales from SSH is unimportant because you don't see any heat flux at those scales is circular because the filtered SSH is used to compute the heat flux. \'a0Is there an independent source to claim that the "heat flux is dominated by larger scales"? \'a0I'm probably channelling Carl here! \'a0I think the end of the paragraph (lines 93-97) are a good finish: "Without higher resolution altimetry, it's hard to say how important the unresolved scales are to the heat flux, but the 1/10deg POP model makes it look like they're not that important." \'a0I just don't like the part "The SSH signal displays very little power at such short wavelengths (see Fig. 2), and the heat flux is dominated by larger scales. While it is expected that the largest eddies make the dominant contribution to the eddy flux," without some independent justification.\

\i This is a good point about the circular logic. In fact, the fact that the flux is dominated by large scales is a well-accepted idea in turbulence, based on mixing-length ideas, and also on the shape of the spectrum.
\i0 \
\
\
LINE 130-132: Something odd in your description of removing space/time means. \'a0\
First, does "subtract overall temporal mean at each latitude" mean (i) subtract the time mean at each POINT in lat/lon or (ii) subtract the time-longitude mean at each latitude? \'a0remove_temporal_mean in sector_analyzer looks like it does (i). \'a0\
Second, in calc_spectra.py line 134-136, it looks like you're treating SSH and SST differently: remove_temporal_mean=True for SST but not for SSH_U and _V. \'a0Is there a reason for this? \'a0AVISO is already the anomaly relative to the 1993-1999 time mean (at each point), but GHRSST fields aren't, so that would be a good reason to remove the time mean from SST only. \'a0The same question applies to calc_spectra_POP: why not remove_temporal_mean=True for SSH_U and _V? \'a0Is the time mean velocity already removed from the POP fields?\
I would say: "We subtract the time mean at each point (this is already done in the case of AVISO fields which are the anomaly relative to 1993-1999 mean), and then the zonal mean at each time step, effectively removing the seasonal cycle and the basin-scale variability." \'a0Technically, this isn't the "only filter", since smoothing the signal in frequency space (line 180) is a frequency-space filter, too.\

\i Good catch. You are right: removing the temporal mean doesn\'92t affect AVISO since I am using SLA. However, it does affect POP. I reran the POP calculation with temporal mean removed. No visible difference other than at the zero frequency.\

\i0 \
LINE 155: Here\'85\

\i OK\

\i0 \
LINE 160: Should this be L(\\phi) = 2 \\pi a cos(\\phi)*50/360?\

\i OK\

\i0 \
EQ 1: Are you sure the normalization of the inverse FT is right? \'a0I haven't checked it yet, but looks odd.\

\i I have checked it multiple times and also verified the Parseval relations (eqs. 3-5) numerically. The normalization was chosen to make those equations look the way they do. The square root of two arises because you are only summing over half of of the wavenumbers but all of the frequencies. 
\i0 \
\
On a trivial note, I was initially confused by the index k, since k is usually wavenumber. \'a0Maybe rename the indices j->r and k->s? \

\i Here k is actually a wave\'94number\'94 in the sense that wavenumber k=1 is the wave with a wavelength of the basin. I know it looks a little weird but there is a logic to it\'85Plus I don\'92t really feel like changing all the notation.
\i0 \
\
LINE 170: "\'85 each Fourier component represents a fraction of the variance and the total variance is (eq. 3) where the asterisk denotes the complex conjugate and the overbear a frequency/wavenumber sum." \'a0\\Phi is in Fourier space, so you can't average in space and time. (Except in the case where you average spectral estimates from different locations/times. \'a0But I don't think that's what you mean here.\

\i Corrected
\i0 \
\
LINE 180: I found the "Gaussian filter with a width of two grid points" a bit confusing. \'a0"Grid points" sounds like physical space (1/4 deg or 7 days), but I think you mean that the standard deviation of the Gaussian function is two frequency bands. \'a0\

\i Yes
\i0 \
\
LINE 225: and Figs. 7-8. \'a0What's the message? \

\i What\'92s the message of what? Don\'92t understand the question.\

\i0 \
LINE 235: Again, any citation for claiming large eddies are most efficient?\

\i probably
\i0 \
\
LINE 238: conclusion\
LINE 302: capitalize CCSM in reference\
FIG 1: The figure captions use km, m and days, s. \'a0Do you want to pick one? \'a0Units of temperature are Kelvin which is sensible, but still possibly confusing. \'a0I'd mention it somewhere in the text. \'a0For middle panel, x-axis is period, not frequency.\

\i I don\'92t want to pick one. I picked the units I thought were most appropriate for each case. km / days are appropriate for the axes. m/s are appropriate for the velocities. In any case, the units are very obscure: the point is to see the magnitudes
\i0 \
\
For the colormaps, you are plotting the log of the spectrum, and the colorbar is in log(spectrum units). \'a0I think a nicer way to do it is to plot the quantity itself, but with a logarithmically scaled colorbar. \'a0For example\
	im = plt.imshow(spectrum, extent=[k[0], k[-1], w[0], w[-1]], cmap=cm.Spectral_r, norm=mpl.colors.LogNorm())\
	cbar = plt.colorbar(im, format=mpl.ticker.LogFormatterMathtext())\
To make this look right with latex fonts and all, I had to add a bit of code before the figures:\
	from matplotlib import colors, ticker, cm, rc \
	# control fonts \
	rc('font',**\{'family':'serif','serif':['Times Roman'],'size':'10'\}) \
	rc('text', usetex=True) \
	rc('text.latex', preamble=['\\usepackage\{mathptmx\}', '\\usepackage\{amsmath\}']) \
	rc('axes', titlesize='medium') \
	rc('legend', fontsize='small') \
	# control legend line length. Multiple of font width \
	mpl.rcParams['legend.handlelength'] = 3 \
	rc('axes', unicode_minus=True)\
FIG 7: Caption doesn't mention bottom panel or define \\gamma. \'a0In the middle panel (spectral width), all three quantities have a larger bandwidth in POP than in the satellite observations. \'a0This is worrying. \'a0Earlier, you suggest that the eddy heat transport is dominated by the large eddies. \'a0But here it looks like POP has heat transport at smaller mean scales (top panel red lines differ by about a factor of 2 at 30S) and spread over a wider wavenumber range (middle panel red lines differ by about a factor of 3 at 30S). \'a0More broadly, I think the paper could make better use of the POP results. How can POP be used to reinforce the satellite results? \'a0More on this below.\
FIG 8: lower panel label y-axis "spectral width (m s^-1)". \'a0\
\
Originally, I wanted to work on improving the spectral analysis, but I think it would realistically take more than a week, and doubt it would change the results drastically. \'a0If you were looking for narrow spectral peaks, the details would matter a lot. \'a0\
\
In this case, I think a bigger issue is the limited resolution of the AVISO product which you mention. \'a0The AVISO processing strongly attenuates signals smaller than about 2deg (according to the Chelton 2011 appendix). \'a0While gaussian-shaped eddies as small as 50km are still detectable, their amplitude in the AVISO product is attenuated. \'a0Hence, AVISO could be over-emphasizing the role of large eddies. \'a0I think it's fine to acknowledge the issue and take the results for what they are. \'a0The next step beyond that would be to try to quantify the effect. \'a0The filtering of the AVISO spectrum is (sort of) known. \'a0To get an idea of the magnitude of the effect, you could apply the same filtering to the POP spectrum (very easy in the Fourier domain\'85 it's just multiplication by the FT of the filter function) and see how that changes the correlation for POP. \'a0The hope would be that AVISO-like filtering doesn't significantly change the heat flux bandwidth (with respect to phase speed) for POP, and that would increase confidence in the satellite results. \'a0I can say more if you're interested in pursuing that.\
\
More broadly, I think the paper is really interesting and I would love to be a part of it, but it seems like you're basically done. \'a0I didn't mean to sound doubtful in my last email\'85 I was just feeling guilty for not having done anything on this. \'a0At the moment, the main areas I can think to contribute are what I mentioned above about the POP model, but you may not want to go that direction. \'a0This email is running on a bit so I'll end it now, but I'm still thinking about what else I can add to the paper.\
\
Also, my name is spelled Cimarron, though I don't think I deserve to have my name on the paper at this point. \'a0And the address is\
"Applied Physics Laboratory, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington".\
\
\
\
\
oliver\
212-305-3625}